CONTRIBUTING.md, before:


How to contribute
-----------------

Thanks for taking the time to contribute! If you have any questions or need any help, get in touch as described in the
[Getting Help](doc/getting-help.md) section of our documentation.

### Submitting issues

If there is something you think could be done better but you can't for any reason do it yourself, just submit
an issue. In the issue description be sure to include at least the following information:

* A short description of relevant environment information (Minecraft and Forge versions, for example);
* If it is a bug, a step by step description of how to reproduce the problem;
* If it is a feature request, a step by step description of what you want to do in the game, and of what is the
expected result inside the game.

Please avoid submitting issues that are simply questions - for those, use the resources mentioned in the
[Getting Help](doc/getting-help.md) section, like mentioned above.

### Submitting Pull Requests

If you want to submit code, simply open a _Pull Request_. It will be read and replied to as soon as possible!

When submitting a new _Pull Request_, have the following in mind:

* Make it as short as possible - [this blog post](https://blog.jcranky.com/2017/09/27/a-plea-for-small-pull-requests/)
explains a bit why this is important;
* Manually test your changes inside the game;
* Include automated tests that cover your changes;
* Include a _title_ that is small and descriptive;
* Include a _description_ that explains _why_ your changes are necessary. It is ok to omit the _description_ if the
changes are really simple and obvious.
* If it is a new feature, add a test mod (or modify an existing one) showcasing your changes;

Some contributions, like documentation, don't require all of the above. Just use common sense ;)

We have automated code analysis with [Codacy](https://www.codacy.com/) enabled for this project. If it thinks your PR
is doing something "not cool", please take the time to read the explanation of the problem and fix it. If you think
that an specific analysis is wrong or not relevant for your PR, please leave a comment in the PR explaining why that
is the case.

Thank you very much for contributing!

Commit message:

Improve contribution guidelines (#136)
Specifically, mention about letting people know that someone is working on
something and remove a redundant file.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:


How to contribute
-----------------

Thanks for taking the time to contribute! If you have any questions or need any help, get in touch as described in the
[Getting Help](doc/getting-help.md) section of our documentation.

### Submitting issues

If there is something you think could be done better but you can't for any reason do it yourself, just submit
an issue. In the issue description be sure to include at least the following information:

* A short description of relevant environment information (Minecraft and Forge versions, for example);
* If it is a bug, a step by step description of how to reproduce the problem;
* If it is a feature request, a step by step description of what you want to do in the game, and of what is the
expected result inside the game.

Please avoid submitting issues that are simply questions - for those, use the resources mentioned in the
[Getting Help](doc/getting-help.md) section, like mentioned above.

### Submitting Pull Requests

If you want to submit code, simply open a _Pull Request_. It will be read and replied to as soon as possible! It is also
good idea to add a comment on the relevant issue to let us know that you are working on a given issue, to avoid duplicated
efforts.

When submitting a new _Pull Request_, have the following in mind:

* Make it as short as possible - [this blog post](https://blog.jcranky.com/2017/09/27/a-plea-for-small-pull-requests/)
explains a bit why this is important;
* Manually test your changes inside the game;
* Include automated tests that cover your changes;
* Include a _title_ that is small and descriptive;
* Include a _description_ that explains _why_ your changes are necessary. It is ok to omit the _description_ if the
changes are really simple and obvious.
* If it is a new feature, add a test mod (or modify an existing one) showcasing your changes;

Some contributions, like documentation, don't require all of the above. Just use common sense ;)

We have automated code analysis with [Codacy](https://www.codacy.com/) enabled for this project. If it thinks your PR
is doing something "not cool", please take the time to read the explanation of the problem and fix it. If you think
that an specific analysis is wrong or not relevant for your PR, please leave a comment in the PR explaining why that
is the case.

Thank you very much for contributing!
