README.md, before:

EasyForger
==========

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/easyforger/easyforger](https://badges.gitter.im/easyforger/easyforger.svg)](https://gitter.im/easyforger/easyforger?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

Note: this is still under heavy development and everything is subject to change!
Also, feedback is very much appreciated. A good place to send them is our mailing list at https://groups.google.com/group/easyforger

EasyForger is a DSL to help you write MinecraftForge mods for Minecraft (obviously =p)

To run the project, follow these steps:

* clone the repository
* setup your gradle environment with this command: ```./gradlew setupDecompWorkspace```
* you can make sure everything is really working with ```./gradlew runClient``` - this should launch minecraft with your mods
* import the project into your IDE
* for IDEA, after importing, run this command: ```./gradlew genIntellijruns```
* run ```Minecraft Client``` from your IDE menu (which is generated in the command above)

For detailed information have a look at the Minecraft Forge documentation here: http://www.minecraftforge.net/wiki/Installation/Source

Also, please keep in mind that EasyForger uses Scala, so you should have your IDE's Scala plugin installed.


-- 

Running in "semi" offline mode

To run EasyForger (MinecraftForge, really) without internet is not possible, but we can minimize access to the network using a nexus repository.
Start by looking at this tutorial here, to setup nexus: http://www.sonatype.org/nexus/2015/02/17/improved-minecraft-forge-modding-with-nexus/

Then, to run the project, use the ```init.gradle``` file inside the ```nexed``` folder instead of the original one mentioned in the tutorial. I suggest the following:

```./gradlew setupDecompWorkspace -g nexed```

By doing this, you don't need to put ```init.gradle``` in you local ```.gradle```, which keeps your environment clean. After that, everything will be cached in nexus - except the files downloaded from minecraftforge.net, which can't be cached (I don't know why).


--

Publishing tasks:

* bintrayUpload (cut a version and upload it to bintray)

To effectively release a version, change dryRun to ```false``` in the ```build.gradle``` file.
You also should create a `gradle.properties` file and set your bintray credentials there.

--

Steps to close a version (personal reminder until it gets automated)
- change version config to final
- commit
- bintrayUpload (with dryRun = false)
- create github tag for the version (draft a new release)
- close the milestone on github
- change version config to next snapshot
- commit
- send announcements to twiiter, the mailing list and the forums at forum.easyforger.com
- don't forget the do the same for easyforger-samples and easyforger-autotester
- also, generate the tag on the ef-mod-template and upload the template link on the easyforger.com website

--

### Know limitations and awkward behaviours

* When creating shaped recipes, the short for `Items.wheat_seeds` is `s`, not `w`


This library is licensed under the LGPL v3.

Commit message:

Upgrade code to support MC 1.10.2
This commit is quite big and changes a lot, specially because we skipped 1.9
and went directly to 1.10. Some issues could not be solved yet and will be worked
on later. they are mentioned in the changelog and specific issues were created on
github.

closes #60

README.md, after:

EasyForger
==========

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/easyforger/easyforger](https://badges.gitter.im/easyforger/easyforger.svg)](https://gitter.im/easyforger/easyforger?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

Note: this is still under heavy development and everything is subject to change!
Also, feedback is very much appreciated. A good place to send them is our mailing list at https://groups.google.com/group/easyforger

For a list of what changes as the releases progresses, have a look at the [Changelog](Changelog.md).

EasyForger is a DSL to help you write MinecraftForge mods for Minecraft (obviously =p)

To run the project, follow these steps:

* clone the repository
* setup your gradle environment with this command: ```./gradlew setupDecompWorkspace```
* you can make sure everything is really working with ```./gradlew runClient``` - this should launch minecraft with your mods
* import the project into your IDE
* for IDEA, after importing, run this command: ```./gradlew genIntellijruns```
* run ```Minecraft Client``` from your IDE menu (which is generated in the command above)

For detailed information have a look at the Minecraft Forge documentation here: http://www.minecraftforge.net/wiki/Installation/Source

Also, please keep in mind that EasyForger uses Scala, so you should have your IDE's Scala plugin installed.


-- 

Running in "semi" offline mode

To run EasyForger (MinecraftForge, really) without internet is not possible, but we can minimize access to the network using a nexus repository.
Start by looking at this tutorial here, to setup nexus: http://www.sonatype.org/nexus/2015/02/17/improved-minecraft-forge-modding-with-nexus/

Then, to run the project, use the ```init.gradle``` file inside the ```nexed``` folder instead of the original one mentioned in the tutorial. I suggest the following:

```./gradlew setupDecompWorkspace -g nexed```

By doing this, you don't need to put ```init.gradle``` in you local ```.gradle```, which keeps your environment clean. After that, everything will be cached in nexus - except the files downloaded from minecraftforge.net, which can't be cached (I don't know why).


--

Publishing tasks:

* bintrayUpload (cut a version and upload it to bintray)

To effectively release a version, change dryRun to ```false``` in the ```build.gradle``` file.
You also should create a `gradle.properties` file and set your bintray credentials there.

--

Steps to close a version (personal reminder until it gets automated)
- change version config to final
- commit
- bintrayUpload (with dryRun = false)
- create github tag for the version (draft a new release)
- close the milestone on github
- change version config to next snapshot
- commit
- send announcements to twiiter, the mailing list and the forums at forum.easyforger.com
- don't forget the do the same for easyforger-samples and easyforger-autotester
- also, generate the tag on the ef-mod-template and upload the template link on the easyforger.com website

--

### Know limitations and awkward behaviours

* When creating shaped recipes, the short for `Items.wheat_seeds` is `s`, not `w`


This library is licensed under the LGPL v3.
